---
layout: post
title: Windows 7
date: 2009-06-29 21:32:58.000000000 +01:00
collection: posts
category: Tech
---

Ok, there have been a few interesting developments on Windows 7 since I last blogged about it.

For starters, the starter edition will [no longer have the 3 app rule](http://community.winsupersite.com/blogs/paul/archive/2009/05/22/exclusive-microsoft-to-remove-3-app-limit-from-windows-7-starter.aspx). For those who don’t know, the 3 app rule was that you could not run more than 3 apps at once (not including A/V software). Their reasons were that the netbooks couldn’t handle it, and that most people won’t use more than 3 apps. So, it is interesting that they have stopped this, as they seemed to be taking more and more control over netbooks as time went on.

I wonder what made them change their mind. Was it the bad press? Was it the hundreds of people being unhappy bout it? I guess we will never know…

Second of all, windows 7 seems to be running at a base install (no AV software) at about 400mb on a 32-bit computer. That is interesting. It seems to be a lot better than Vista, but still quite heavy. 400 as apposed to about 150 for a base ubuntu install running compiz. But ach well, it is a step in the right direction.

Third, it seems Windows 7 will only be released as a full install in Europe. They will have an upgrade option, but it will just be the full install disk. I wonder what the point is…? But also, it will be much more expensive than in America. Up to double depending on the actual version that you choose.

So, good and bad things going for Microsoft and Windows 7 just now. I would like to point out that the RC seems to run slower than the beta.
